So we're gonna learn how to code
today using something called Scratch.
Scratch is a project out of MIT and
it is effectively,
it's a programming language,
but for the adults viewing,
maybe not the same syntax
that you're used to seeing.
And yet a whole bunch of things that,
will strike you as familiar.
Some of them I'll call out, some of them
I won't, some you'll just suddenly know.
It's got a lot of the kind
of same principles but
instead of having to like remember a bunch
of squirrely syntax, you can snap together
the pieces of your code like Lego blocks,
I think there's a fair metaphor.
And begin to make all sorts of
fun little things like games for
example, at one point towards
the end we'll look at making snake.
Which is slightly trickier than it
seems but we'll be ready by the end.
Here's hoping, different kind of games.
You could also do stuff like making
interactive stories where it follows
the script by kinda running through, like
do this and then move this thing there,
and then do the other things.
You can make an entire play if you want,
instead of a game.
And do interactive storytelling or
something where maybe they choose
an option and
different things happen along those lines.
You can also use it to make art, right?
And so this is just simply making various
different polygons until I run out
of room.
I think we get to like a 20
sided polygon in this one.
And so there's all sorts of
different things you can do.
A lot of what we'll look at today is
some of the different kind of making
game mechanics that as well
as making some art as well.
And we'll kind of see all
the steps kind of build up.
And the idea is that we'll have
a bunch of the fundamentals in place.
And then towards the end, you should be
able to kind of have a bunch of ideas and
go forth to make a bunch of cool stuff
that we'll all enjoy at a later date.
The one thing that I will say now,
and I will probably repeat
it about 15,000 times is like there's
good news and bad news about computers.
At the time of this workshop,
computers do not think on their own,
that could change at any given moment.
But at this moment,
computers don't think on their own.
Which means when your game or
your art project or whatever,
it's not behaving as expected, computers
will always do what you tell them to do.
This may not always be what
you want them to do, but
they're always gonna do what
the code says to do, right?
Sometimes that can be frustrating when
you don't know exactly what you told them
to do that was wrong.
But normally they're not acting on
their own, if your games like network
is something that you kind of
have to sit down and solve for.
I say that because at one point,
I will forget that,
we all forget that when we think it's
the computer that was wrong, not me.
There's this various thing like
when you're teaching programming,
where it's like you ask everyone
to write down the instructions for
make a peanut butter and jelly sandwich,
which, I'm not doing here for reasons.
But they say,
put the peanut butter on the bread.
You take the jar of peanut butter,
put it on the loaf of bread, right?
There's a bunch of series of things of
how this can go entirely wrong to kind of
teach that no, the computer will
literally do what you tell it to do.
It's not gonna assume that you meant this
or figure out and take a context clue or
something along those lines.
And that's, I think, an important thing to
remember, as we kind of jump into this and
we're about to jump into this.
But keep that in mind as we go along.
If something's not behaving properly,
it's time to take a pause,
take a deep breath, look at it again.
One of the greatest things I ever
learned when I was first starting out
was at the time my son was like
a newborn or whatever, and
I had this job where I had to go home,
right?
And sometimes I would sit in front of the
computer and be like, this isn't working.
Computers are terrible, they were possibly
a bad idea, and I would be frustrated,
frustrated, frustrated, but
I have to go home at some point at
around five now because I was a dad.
And the act of walking home, and
getting away from the computer, and
just thinking about the problem,
I go, and then it would solve for it.
So sometimes there's a bunch of very human
strategies for working with computers
like taking a break, taking a deep breath,
stopping and thinking for
a moment because they will just run
through the thing as you said they won't.
Sometimes you'll get a little
helpful like it'll blow up in a way.
The best possible thing when something's
not doing what you want is that it does
blow up because at least
there's an error message.
So the worst is when it's just
subtly not doing what you want.
In that art example you saw before,
at one point I had a setup
where after 10 it was broken.
What I forgot was it was hitting the top
and bouncing off, but it took me a good 10
minutes to realize the error of
my ways and just move it down.
Little stuff like that will be
the reason why stuff doesn't work so
sometimes stopping and
thinking, super important.
Everything we're gonna do today.
You don't need to necessarily have
this open at this moment, but
all the notes that I'm going to
kind of like, that I have for
everything I'm saying is here
with fun little pictures.
I'll shows you, in a given point.
So if you, there's something that
isn't on my screen at a given moment,
you can see that for the most part,
I've tried to break this out into steps.
So at a given section,
if there's something that you need,
you can kind of see roughly where I am.
Now, granted, this is interactive and
we might get a great question and
go off on a whim so
I might deviate a little bit.
But generally speaking a lot
of the immediate steps and
in a lot of cases there are built
versions of different things you can kind
of take a look at as well.
With that, what we're gonna do
is just kind of just look and
get a tour of our little
Scratch editor in this case.